README.md, before:

# EmoryChat

Emotional neural conversational model with memory

## Getting Started

### Spacy's large English model
```
python -m spacy download en_core_web_lg
```

### Fasttext
```
wget https://github.com/facebookresearch/fastText/archive/v0.1.0.zip
unzip v0.1.0.zip
rm v0.1.0.zip
cd fastText-0.1.0
make
```

### Data

#### Emotion

After you download and extract all of the following corpora run src/data/emotion_data_parsers.py 

##### Hashtag Emotion Corpus
Download [Hashtag Emotion Corpus](http://saifmohammad.com/WebDocs/Jan9-2012-tweets-clean.txt.zip)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/Jan9-2012-tweets-clean.txt.

##### Crowdflower's The Emotion in Text
Download [The Emotion in Text](https://www.crowdflower.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/text_emotion.csv)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/text_emotion.csv.

##### Affective Text SemEval 2007
Download [Affective Text](http://web.eecs.umich.edu/~mihalcea/downloads/AffectiveText.Semeval.2007.tar.gz)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/AffectiveText.Semeval.2007.

##### Electoral/Political tweets annotated for sentiment, emotion, purpose and style
Download [Electoral/Political tweets annotated for sentiment, emotion, purpose and style](http://saifmohammad.com/WebDocs/ElectoralTweetsData.zip)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/ElectoralTweetsData.

##### WASSA-2017 Shared Task on Emotion Intensity (EmoInt)
Download [WASSA-2017 Shared Task on Emotion Intensity (EmoInt)](http://saifmohammad.com/WebPages/EmotionIntensity-SharedTask.html)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/Wassa-2017.

##### Collections of love letters, hate mail, and suicide notes
Download [Collections of love letters, hate mail, and suicide notes](http://saifmohammad.com/WebDocs/LoveHateSuicide.tar.gz)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/LoveHateSuicide/love-letters.txt.

##### Movie reviews, annotated for emotion classification
Clone [Movie reviews, annotated for emotion classification](https://github.com/NLeSC/spudisc-emotion-classification)
to data/raw/emotion/spudisc-emotion-classification-master

##### NRC Emotion Lexicon
Get [NRC Emotion Lexicon](http://saifmohammad.com/WebPages/NRC-Emotion-Lexicon.htm)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/NRC-Sentiment-Emotion-Lexicons

#### Dialogue

##### Cornell Movie-Dialogs Corpus
Download [Cornell Movie-Dialogs Corpus](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~cristian/Cornell_Movie-Dialogs_Corpus.html)
and extract to data/raw/dialogue/cornell movie-dialogs corpus.

Reformat to csv via src/data/movie_corpus_extraction.py

##### Ubuntu Dialogue Corpus v2.0
Clone [Ubuntu Dialogue Corpus v2.0](https://github.com/rkadlec/ubuntu-ranking-dataset-creator)

Translate create_ubuntu_dataset.py to python 3. Set positive example probability to 1.
Generate corpus via generate.sh. Reformat to csv via src/data/ubuntu_corpus_extraction.py

##### Microsoft Research Social Media Conversation Corpus 
Download [Microsoft Research Social Media Conversation Corpus](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=52375&from=http%3A%2F%2Fresearch.microsoft.com%2Fen-us%2Fdownloads%2F6096d3da-0c3b-42fa-a480-646929aa06f1%2F)
and extract to data/raw/dialogue/MSRSocialMediaConversationCorpus.

This dataset only has tweet IDs, so create a Twitter application to access its API.
Put your ConsumerToken, ConsumerSecret, AccessToken, AccessSecret into config.ini in the following format
```
[twitter]
ConsumerToken = abc
ConsumerSecret = abc
AccessToken = abc
AccessSecret = abc
```
Run src/data/microsoft_corpus_tweets_extraction.py to extract tweet texts.

##### Reddit comments
Download a [month of Reddit comments](https://www.kaggle.com/data/31657)
and extract to data/raw/dialogue/reddit_comments_month. 

Create utterances via src/data/reddit_comments_extraction.py.

### Installing

Run all cells in notebooks/exploration/1.0-rsh-emotion-data.ipynb to generate a combined dataset with 
a reduced number of classes.
Find the best hyperparameters for fasttext via src/models/fasttext_hypertuning.py. 
Run emotion classification training on the whole corpus with src/models/fasttext_training.py
Prepare dialogue data for fasttext through src/data/prepare_for_fasttex.py.
Run utterances emotion classification via src/models/fasttext_inference.py and create the final 
emotion dialogue dataset by running src/data/merge_with_labels.py

## Running the tests

Explain how to run the automated tests for this system

## Authors

* **Roman Shaptala** - *Everything* - [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/romanshaptala/)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* Zhou, Hao, et al. "Emotional Chatting Machine: Emotional Conversation Generation with Internal and External Memory." arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.01074 (2017). [[PDF]](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1704.01074)
* Ghazvininejad, Marjan, et al. "A Knowledge-Grounded Neural Conversation Model." arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.01932 (2017). [[PDF]](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1702.01932)

Commit message:

add app skeleton code, angular front-end and update README

README.md, after:

# EmoryChat

Emotional neural conversational system with knowledge for online courses search.

The project is aimed to create a chat-bot that responds with a given emotion and is also capable of online courses recommendation.
Emotion aspect of the system is done via emotion entity embeddings that are fed to the RNN decoder along with the encoded utterance.
Course recommendations are implemented as a cosine similarity search through averaged word2vec embeddings of course description words.


## Getting Started

### Spacy's large English model
```
python -m spacy download en_core_web_lg
```

### Fasttext
```
wget https://github.com/facebookresearch/fastText/archive/v0.1.0.zip
unzip v0.1.0.zip
rm v0.1.0.zip
cd fastText-0.1.0
make
```

### Data

#### Emotion

After you download and extract all of the following corpora run src/data/emotion_data_parsers.py 

##### Hashtag Emotion Corpus
Download [Hashtag Emotion Corpus](http://saifmohammad.com/WebDocs/Jan9-2012-tweets-clean.txt.zip)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/Jan9-2012-tweets-clean.txt.

##### Crowdflower's The Emotion in Text
Download [The Emotion in Text](https://www.crowdflower.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/text_emotion.csv)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/text_emotion.csv.

##### Affective Text SemEval 2007
Download [Affective Text](http://web.eecs.umich.edu/~mihalcea/downloads/AffectiveText.Semeval.2007.tar.gz)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/AffectiveText.Semeval.2007.

##### Electoral/Political tweets annotated for sentiment, emotion, purpose and style
Download [Electoral/Political tweets annotated for sentiment, emotion, purpose and style](http://saifmohammad.com/WebDocs/ElectoralTweetsData.zip)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/ElectoralTweetsData.

##### WASSA-2017 Shared Task on Emotion Intensity (EmoInt)
Download [WASSA-2017 Shared Task on Emotion Intensity (EmoInt)](http://saifmohammad.com/WebPages/EmotionIntensity-SharedTask.html)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/Wassa-2017.

##### Collections of love letters, hate mail, and suicide notes
Download [Collections of love letters, hate mail, and suicide notes](http://saifmohammad.com/WebDocs/LoveHateSuicide.tar.gz)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/LoveHateSuicide/love-letters.txt.

##### Movie reviews, annotated for emotion classification
Clone [Movie reviews, annotated for emotion classification](https://github.com/NLeSC/spudisc-emotion-classification)
to data/raw/emotion/spudisc-emotion-classification-master

##### NRC Emotion Lexicon
Get [NRC Emotion Lexicon](http://saifmohammad.com/WebPages/NRC-Emotion-Lexicon.htm)
and extract to data/raw/emotion/NRC-Sentiment-Emotion-Lexicons

#### Dialogue

##### Cornell Movie-Dialogs Corpus
Download [Cornell Movie-Dialogs Corpus](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~cristian/Cornell_Movie-Dialogs_Corpus.html)
and extract to data/raw/dialogue/cornell movie-dialogs corpus.

Reformat to csv via src/data/movie_corpus_extraction.py

##### Ubuntu Dialogue Corpus v2.0
Clone [Ubuntu Dialogue Corpus v2.0](https://github.com/rkadlec/ubuntu-ranking-dataset-creator)

Translate create_ubuntu_dataset.py to python 3. Set positive example probability to 1.
Generate corpus via generate.sh. Reformat to csv via src/data/ubuntu_corpus_extraction.py

##### Microsoft Research Social Media Conversation Corpus 
Download [Microsoft Research Social Media Conversation Corpus](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=52375&from=http%3A%2F%2Fresearch.microsoft.com%2Fen-us%2Fdownloads%2F6096d3da-0c3b-42fa-a480-646929aa06f1%2F)
and extract to data/raw/dialogue/MSRSocialMediaConversationCorpus.

This dataset only has tweet IDs, so create a Twitter application to access its API.
Put your ConsumerToken, ConsumerSecret, AccessToken, AccessSecret into config.ini in the following format
```
[twitter]
ConsumerToken = abc
ConsumerSecret = abc
AccessToken = abc
AccessSecret = abc
```
Run src/data/microsoft_corpus_tweets_extraction.py to extract tweet texts.

##### Reddit comments
Download a [month of Reddit comments](https://www.kaggle.com/data/31657)
and extract to data/raw/dialogue/reddit_comments_month. 

Create utterances via src/data/reddit_comments_extraction.py.

### Installation

Run all cells in notebooks/exploration/1.0-rsh-emotion-data.ipynb to generate a combined dataset with 
a reduced number of classes.
Find the best hyperparameters for fasttext via src/models/fasttext_hypertuning.py. 
Run emotion classification training on the whole corpus with src/models/fasttext_training.py
Prepare dialogue data for fasttext through src/data/prepare_for_fasttex.py.
Run utterances emotion classification via src/models/fasttext_inference.py and create the final 
emotion dialogue dataset by running src/data/merge_with_labels.py

## Running the tests

Tests are in src/tests.

## Authors

* **Roman Shaptala** - *Everything* - [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/romanshaptala/)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* Zhou, Hao, et al. "Emotional Chatting Machine: Emotional Conversation Generation with Internal and External Memory." arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.01074 (2017). [[PDF]](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1704.01074)
* Ghazvininejad, Marjan, et al. "A Knowledge-Grounded Neural Conversation Model." arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.01932 (2017). [[PDF]](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1702.01932)
* pytorch-seq2seq [[code]](https://github.com/IBM/pytorch-seq2seq)
* Angular Chatbot with Dialogflow [[code]](https://github.com/AngularFirebase/59-angular-chatbot-dialogflow)
